[Music]
so good morning so for our opening
prayers this morning we'll do the 37
practices of bodhisattvas okay is that
better
okay page number one
I'm sorry starting on page number two in
English
no more Lucas water yay well seeing that
all phenomena neither come nor go you
strive solely for the sake of all beings
supreme guru and protector Chenrezig at
all times I respectfully pay homage to
you with my body speech and mind the
perfect Buddha is the source of all
benefit and happiness the rise from
having accomplished the true Dharma
since that depends on knowing the
practices I shall explain the way of the
Bodhisattvas having now gained this
great ship of freedom and fortune so
difficult to find in order to free
yourself and others from the ocean of
cyclic existence
listen reflect and meditate day and
night without distraction this is the
way of a bodhisattva attachment to loved
ones turns like water hatred for enemies
rages like fire and the darkness of
ignorance one forgets what to adopt and
what to avoid abandon your homeland this
is the way of a bodhisattva when
negative
places are abandoned disturbing emotions
will gradually decline without
distractions attention to virtue
naturally grows when the mind becomes
clear certainty in the Dharma arises
live alone in seclusion this is the way
of a bodhisattva family and longtime
companions will part from each other
possessions gained with effort will be
left behind consciousness a guest will
leave the guest house of the body
it concerns this is the way of a
bodhisattva a bad company the three
poisons grows stronger and the
activities of learning reflecting and
meditating decline and love and
compassion are lost give up such
companions this is the way of a
bodhisattva when one follows a true
spiritual friend false will dissolve and
good qualities will grow like the waxing
consider this friend more dear than your
own body this is the way of a
bodhisattva who can worldly gods
themselves imprisoned in samsara protect
therefore seek refuge in the three
jewels the undeceiving source of refuge
this is the way of a bodhisattva the
Buddha taught that all the unbearable
suffering of the lower realms is caused
by wrongdoing therefore never act
wrongly even at the cost of your life
this is the way of a bodhisattva like a
dewdrop on a blade of grass the
happiness of the three worlds vanishes
in but an instant strive for the supreme
state of never changing liberation this
is the way of a bodhisattva when mothers
who have loved you since beginningless
time are suffering what good is your own
happiness therefore give rise to
bodhichitta in order to liberate
infinite sentient beings this is the way
sattva all suffering without exception
comes from seeking your own happiness
the perfect Buddha's are born from the
altruistic mind therefore truely
exchange your own happiness for the
suffering of others this is the way of a
bodhisattva even if someone driven by
great desire steals all your wealth or
lets others steal it dedicate to them
your body possessions in all virtues of
the three times this is the way of a
bodhisattva even if someone cuts off
your head when you haven't done anything
wrong take all the negative deeds upon
yourself through the power of compassion
this is the way of a bodhisattva even if
others slander you throughout a billion
worlds return speak with a loving mind
of their good qualities this is the way
of a bodhisattva even if someone exposes
your hidden faults and insults you in
front of others view that person as a
teacher and bow with respect this is the
way of a bodhisattva even if someone you
have cared for as dearly as your own
child regards you as an enemy love that
person even more as a mother would hurt
a lame child this is the way of a
bodhisattva even if someone of equal or
lower status driven by pride treats you
with disdain respectfully placed them on
your crown as your teacher this is the
way of a bodhisattva thogme though you
may be impoverished and always disparage
gripped by diseased and tormented by
spirits never lose courage but take on
the misdeeds and the pain of
beings this is the way of a bodhisattva
though you may be famous and revered by
many and it was rich as the Well of God
himself having seen that worldly fortune
is without essence do not be proud this
is the way of a bodhisattva
if the enemy your own anger is not tamed
instead of doing other enemies will only
make them increase therefore subdue your
own mind with the army of love and
compassion this is the way of a
bodhisattva sensory flexors are like
salt water the more you drink the
greater your first abandon applauds all
things that give rise to cleaning
attachments this is the way of a
bodhisattva the way things appear is
your own mind mind yourself primordial
ii transcends the fabricated extremes
knowing justice do not create concepts
of subject or object this is the way of
a bodhisattva when you come across
things that attract you like beautiful
rainbows the summer times do not regard
them as real an abandoned clinging
attachment this is the way of a
bodhisattva all the suffering is like
the death of your child in the dream how
exhausting it is to hold illusory
appearances as real therefore when you
meet with difficult circumstances see
them as
this is the way everybody's thoughtful
when even one's body must be given up
when aspiring for enlightenment what
need is there to mention material things
there practice generosity without a
hopeful reward or comic results this is
the way of a bodhisattva if you lack
moral discipline you cannot accomplish
even your own purpose so wanting to
achieve the purpose of others is truly
absurd therefore protect your discipline
without concern for worldly existence
this is the way that the Bodhisattva for
Bodhisattvas who desire a wealth of
virtue all harm is like a precious
treasure therefore without hostility be
patient with everyone this is the way of
the Bodhisattva even hearers or solitary
realizers accomplish only their own
purpose strive as they put another fire
on their head seeing this practice with
diligence the source of good qualities
for the sake of all beings
this is the way of a bodhisattva
disturbing emotions are destroyed by
insight grounded in calm abiding
knowingness
meditative concentration and if people
leave transcendence before formalists
absorptions
this is the way a bodhisattva without
our wisdom the other five perfections
alone are not enough to reach complete
enlightenment
thus abide with skillful means develop
the wisdom that does not distinguish
among the three spheres this is the way
of a bodhisattva unless you examine your
own confused ideas you might look like a
practitioner but not be acting like oil
therefore always examine yourself in
abandon confusion this is the way of a
bodhisattva the view are driven by
disturbing emotions and talk about
another Bodhisattvas false it is
actually to your own detriment so don't
mention the faults of those who have
entered the great vehicle this is the
way of the bodhisattva concern for gain
and respect causes conflict and a
decline in the activities of learning
reflecting and meditating so are meant
an attachment to your circle of friends
relations and benefactors this is the
wave of Oddi suffer harsh words disturb
others minds and thus diminish the
practice of a bodhisattva
therefore abandon harsh speech which is
unpleasant to others this is the way of
a bodhisattva
when disturbing emotions become habitual
it is difficult to reverse them with
notes thus the soldier of mindfulness
wheels antidote says weapons and
destroys disturbing emotions such as
attachment the moment they start to
arise this is the way of a bodhisattva
in brief wherever you are and whatever
you are doing always examine the state
of your mind to accomplish the purpose
of others through constant mindfulness
and awareness this is the way of a
bodhisattva with wisdom of the
three-fold purity dedicate all the
virtue gained from having made such
effort toward enlightenment dedicated to
clear away the suffering of infinite
beings this is the way of a bodhisattva
in accordance with the words of the holy
ones regarding the meaning of the sutras
Tundras and combat troops have written
leaves 37 verses on the way of a
bodhisattva for those who wish to train
on the Bodhisattvas path this
composition will not be admired by the
learned it because my intellect is poor
and my education is limited however I
have followed the sutras and the words
of the Holy Ones so I believe these ways
of a bodhisattva are not mistaken still
because the vast deeds of Bodhisattvas
are difficult to grasp by simple-minded
beings like myself
givenness of the Holy Ones for the mass
of my errors such as contradictions and
inconsistencies by the Virgil arising
from this may all beings give rise to
relative and ultimate bodhichitta and
thereby become like the protector
charity does not abide in the extremes
of existence or peace in each others
arms around one the chakra we're giving
this holier takia ziro sounds a lot more
neutral organization but on my own
etymologically mo Trump October 7th
along bobbin also only fitting Giovanni
da Verrazzano the village of la Santa
Marta - Chi Chi Chi you know so Mohammed
or jealous or simply don't understand
China about you genders are the new
partisan young Don Pacheco don't impose
upon a telethon he resulted in a simple
challenge dr. Christine even the same
ones that I like to put my boots on
they're awesome Toninho unit up in $130
historically you dope under some panties
in solidarity or toss him that's right
area for apparel or doctor demeanor to
topple a time the park or you know the
majority Buddhist master Roberto didn't
deserve it no no no I am teach
physicians
what man mr. Kosan the latest
on general category doctors in cowards
orbital allegedly june/july origin
associations enjoyable aesthetically the
championship which the system admin
Ricardo sorry
colonies among photographers cotton
searchable his reason
Courtney her army rodeo Oh bottom didn't
turn or a little Xander this is
everything
doctors are super here's they have a
second oh god you know but dr. Mertz up
or the Dodson where it is Sudama friends
yesterday we already spoke about the
first burst on his 37 practices and so
it says in there
listen reflect and meditate day and
night without distraction so what is
this actually referred to this listening
and I'm so on is of course not just
listening but it begins with I'm hearing
the teachings and having heard the
teachings you understand the teachings
and then having understood them you
experience them by engaging in practice
so next then is reflection you reflect
on for example the eighteen freedoms and
fortunes the ten fortunes and then there
are eight freedoms so you think about
each of them and as you think about each
of them a feeling arises that is
reflection and then when you meditate
this feeling must have already arisen a
real experience of that must have a
reason so then it becomes in a way
internalized for example in a sense that
even if you have nothing at all if
you're like a Beckham and or you
experience a lot of suffering
of difficulties then you would still
feel actually among the six realms of
samsara
I still have found the precious human
body and merely having found a precious
human body is very precious for example
in contrast to the animal realm and if
you see it this way then also your
suffering will become much lesser and so
no matter what the suffering it is that
you experience who created it and again
we come back to karma so in order to
embark our mom as I mentioned yesterday
we follow the practice of the different
stages of the path we reflect on the
difficulty of finding a precious human
body and that's an impermanent karma and
each of them is connected to the other
they are all connected to each other and
then in fact regarding just these a lot
of commentary a teaching can be given
but I myself have not studied the
Scriptures so much so perhaps I'm not
able to explain it to them in his
elephant wane but now ultimately this
line here and listen reflects and
meditate day and night ultimately what
is the result of doing that what comes
from having done that what is in your
mind then is that you recognize I have
obtained a precious human body and that
in itself already is precious because
some people who don't recognize that
waste away their lives they drink
alcohol there are constantly intoxicated
and they have to beg for food and so on
not recognising that but actually even
if that is even if you have nothing at
all if you just recognize that I have a
precious human body you compared it to
the animal realm for example then you
already experience some level of
well-being just by knowing that how
truly precious it is human existence in
itself is
regardless of what difficulties you
encounter so listening reflecting and
meditating refers to understanding
experiencing and realizing and the
result of that is that you always have
in mind you always recognize this human
life I have is truly very precious
treasure remember at menarche pyruvic
acid and easily obtainable certainly
design in Tunisia was the Challenger
teach others each other exactly seven
against each other
their water shimon peres
modulus is my memory support senator
Angelou out of the report on here
agility ultimate are ganging up on me
period consumers Kira
namaha doesn't even know my
cinematographer logically to marry a
target the city of Managua ha
temperatures a report from homogeneous
over the pad bottom the most angry data
met injection bhaji transient sample
number or the higher income by Lori
Emerson was an unpardonable Marsha only
the hospitality pirates
Shambala she's important
someone awesome
she's abortion somewhat the Ottomans are
enumerated I don't ever give a dream
charge or it encourages Rock Casino
quickly just never saw each other object
the chuck is two protons and take that
young particular need or a random some
German ja ja je t'adore
doctor to promote started planning for
my voyage in distance or autonomous
operating average Joe geometry provided
know what symbol was what they saw so
sunny diversified apparently Leo Spanish
harmony isn't just on body now a
symbolism 707 Oklahoma now a series of
assaults
lawmen of your domicile they'll our
cemeteries dominoes
Montgomery watch every question such a
dirty animal a bottle rahu chat email or
put some simple pictures be partially
tomorrow each other your partner Leon
Jackson Murray
Oh Tommy Mohammed also known as le chat
annuity joining the parish Shimon hardly
robot on tour of the marina
the Harlan Center cannot maneuver
Southern gentleman a solution or the
shipyard or a terrible harm or just of a
sudden Yahtzee
no Julius Oh Danny Bobby buddy some of
the paths of the Lord said I shall not
eat yesterday the pipe or so you know
tiger bunny challenge upon faith all my
PO Box armor on Lake of the devil not
charging in this room is nothing but a
jolly dot down on paper you know Justin
Bieber you chosen something just overall
a unitary something so worried hitch
there are also no cameras sedan the
second verse says attachment aloft once
turns like water hatred for enemies
rages like fire in the darkness of
ignorance one forgets what to adopt and
what to avoid
abandon your homeland this is the way of
a bodhisattva
now in a homeland
we often what is really refers to is a
place or a circumstance were we cling to
something as belonging to ourselves and
that includes our perception of enemies
and friends on a larger scale that
happens for example between different
countries and on the inner level it
refers to our personal relations to
so-called enemies and friends that we
develop either attachment for or a
version form and both of these thoughts
of attachment and aversion obscure the
mind that is actually like space by
nature but they obscure the mind and
they obscure the mind because we
in their reality we cling to their true
existence this is how it is so actually
what is an enemy and what is a friend we
think that whoever harms me is an enemy
and whoever loves me is a friend
but if you really think about it is this
really something true or not actually
this is not true at all
even in this life for example your best
friend may turn into your worst enemy
various conditions can arise and the
strongest love is impermanent happiness
is impermanent so enemies and friends in
this life are actually uncertain and for
this reason they need to be equalized so
first of all to do that we need to
understand where do those enemies come
from who are named actually in a
previous life they were someone who has
been extremely kind to us and who has
loved us very much like a parent or a
friend and so forth and while they have
loved you very much you have treated
them badly in return for example how
does that happen for example there is a
very rich family with a lot of children
they have a lot of money they have
houses and so on and then the parents
approach death and before they die
already
the children all fights over their money
and their house and who gets what so how
do their parents feel about that
they feel until now main our entire life
we cared for them and now they don't
care about us all they care about is our
money and the house so they're like they
don't care about me they are like an
enemy so then this perception arises and
all of that love that they have had
turns into resentment or hatred and in
fact the stronger the love the more
profound will beam the hate
read stats then arises now we speak
about this kind of critical object which
in that sense is our parents for example
we're not talking about like small
moments of anger that come and go but
often when love is very strong and that
kind of love is what becomes this deep
hatred that veeam develop against people
and that is then carried on internet
next life so became certain that anyone
that we deeply hate or hates us in this
life and enemy must have been someone
who has loved me very much in a previous
life and has been very kind and then on
the other hand there is those so called
friends and who are they actually in
fact they are our karmic creditors who
come to take our wealth and our life and
and so forth they are those are male and
female coming creditors who take birth
for instance as in our family as our
children in fact our family has been our
family members have been our enemies in
our previous lives and our enemies and
our friends it always goes around like
that so if you really think about karma
you can see that even in this life first
of all enemies and friends are uncertain
these relations are impermanent and
that's the reality things these things
are really uncertain so therefore you
recognize actually there is no basis of
me getting angry at anyone at all if I
get angry there certainly is no benefit
in that it only creates harm and at the
end it leads to birth in the hell Ram
what is the hell Ram actually it is the
manifestation of hatred it is just like
like a film that is projected for you to
seem this hell is created by your own
mind and so also some
and some have said that is like a dream
everything is like a dream but this
could really lead one astray because
then people might think that well if
it's just the mind then it's not a big
problem it's just like a dream doesn't
really exist but this is not how we
should see that actually because the
hell in future lives and this life are
exactly the same in nature also this
life is only the natural projection of
one's karmic imprints of the previous
life and this is the nature of all the
six realms of samsara so all of these
imprints are stored in the mind just
like pictures that have been taken by a
camera it's all there
so whatever picture you take whatever
you film that is what will become
projected so it all is the fault of
attachment and aversion which obscure
the mind just like when you're breathing
on a glass like a glass or a mirror then
it becomes like hazy you can't see
clearly so just like that those thoughts
of attachment and aversion obscured the
mind or just like pouring different
colors of ink into water it taints the
color of the water so what that means is
that you lose your wisdom your awareness
and without that you are ignorant as to
the workings of karma cause and effect
happiness and suffering so actually
recognize that these thoughts of
attachment and aversion are false they
are not real so if you recognize that
then you will see that actually it's all
uncertain this relationships of enemies
and friends it's all uncertain and in
that way you're feeling these passionate
feelings towards them will become much
lighter and even if you get angry
it will go away quickly so with regards
to abandoning one's homeland now what
that really refers to is not necessarily
the homeland because even if we go to a
different land we still have not
abandoned our thoughts of attachment and
aversion and wherever we do end up is
also due to our karma Muslim so it's not
really about abandoning the homeland but
it really is referring to abandoning the
Falls of attachment and aversion
especially in team attachment to one's
friends and the aversion against one's
enemies so what this really means is
that we must cultivate love and for all
beings seeing them all as equal to zero
you're a judge this is only joy need to
talk about the present is an important
power is pretty critical decision I am
responsible adult authority theories
double payment origin story powers to
Madeira poorest in Chachapoya Margie
bodyguard somewhat insensitive Attorney
General Tom Hollis but I see authority
to allow the north orange honest
politician Thomas is a true nominee this
tournament armory whatever you tell me
sir it's just impossible Rosa Parks
about
yes I suppose but is there something I
did I knew about maker just down on the
child or it no so regarding these
enemies and friends normally we have a
very strong attachment to our our dear
ones like especially our children and
our spouses we lost them very much and
then we have an aversion against our
enemies I'm treating some gun has said
when the one who realizes enemies and
friends is a hero are like I mean like a
doc huh I hear him
so basically when also milarepa for
example he is a renowned Messiah in his
world and how how did he become that way
who really helped him who Lee benefit at
him he was actually his uncle and aunt
who took everything from him all his
wealth and who abused him he was really
due to that condition that he ultimately
became liberated from samsara and there
are many examples about that incident
unquote bad chicken some gun goes on and
then when you when you realize and the
nature of friends dear ones so they are
all attacking bikinis so basically all
becomes a curse and bikini is the same
so normally those near ones dear ones
for example our children we are very
attached to them and we think that this
is my child
so this - Mia is there so what can be
doomed to reduce this attachment so when
you think about what does this trial and
actually do to you actually the child is
like a calming creditor who comes to rob
your house
and your food and take all your money
and in the end that takes everything
from you so if you see it from this way
maybe the attachment gets a little bit
lesser and you see it in a more equal
way but then of course in the end you
see enough to take care of the child but
how you should see it is that a child is
my way to practice the practice in
particular the six paramitas through the
child I can practice generosity and
discipline and Haitians and so forth so
the child supports me in practicing the
six paramitas
so in this way we should see the true
nature of enemies and friends and keep
our asses Impa amoeba so exaggerated so
empathy Portugal Omari de Roma Darren
Colorama I wanna say omar de Nancy men
possessed wrote a seminar which are
annuity for tomorrow trigeminal
neuralgia little Raja triangular Serrano
World Report American solution batricia
a fashion a little Tong Tong Jonesy
Orton even a valid original supported
John even Chinese trauma Maserati Jerome
Horizonte
swathi medicinal let them traditional
Authority rather generate abundantly the
traditional power
the doctor Sarang want their younger
siblings easy Society the common source
of the karate jumpin our delicate aroma
rio colorado boomer abilities similar of
the holy watches are sensitive mind but
you know honey stop attacking EG Noah
there also are cognizant Anthony Romero
curitiba - curitiba maharaja
only insane groups young academia to see
bios of our nation systems and I mean
each other there is none same Authority
or head sooner and the judgments are
they look up knowing JA Bayona
the tragedy love soon something
over your heads 10 verse number 3 when
negative places are abandoned disturbing
emotions will gradually decline without
distractions attention to virtue
naturally grows when the mind becomes
clear certainty in the Dharma arises
live alone in seclusion this is the way
of a bodhisattva I saw this occlusion
here seclusion has an outer inner and
secret aspect and of these the outer
seclusion is the least important and our
refers to test the place where one finds
oneself in this life forever one takes
pers according to one's karma and it is
very one is and has to has to live
what's more important than that is
there's occlusion of the mind and that
means when the mind is the clue that it
does not
fall into any biased views of attachment
and aversion and not doing that tonight
the mind will beam naturally in relaxed
state and then already the mind has
gained some freedom or seclusion when
the mind is relaxed then wisdom arises
and that William this relaxed state is
really a state of schemata calm abiding
it is a state of great equanimity member
in all enemies and friends are
recognized as uncertain and equal and so
being equal what that means is that
everyone is a friend between enemies and
friends everyone has been a parent in a
previous life so love arises for them
immeasurable love arises and then one
just remains within that state and in
this way naturally the mind has attained
freedom wisdom arises and now since you
live in this world and have various
activities to do now then if you have an
opportunity here and therefore some
retreat for some isolation you can do
retreat a short retreat for a week or a
month and so on and just take that time
to meditate calm abiding and Vipassana
so insight into the nature of the mind
and meditating in this way then through
the practice the the enlightened
qualities that are already inherent in
the nature of your mind will reveal
themselves awesome even if the body is
secluded that doesn't necessarily mean
that the mind becomes secluded so you
have various activities to do but me for
example I don't really have anything to
do and I also don't have to even make
make sure I have enough food it just
comes
Frawley but then also what I could what
a one thing I could do is just take it
and sleep but actually then I think
about those people who provided and so
on and how hard they have to work and
then when I think about that then
naturally compassion arises and
naturally patience arises in this way
actually everything any circumstance
becomes practice Milarepa had said then
when you walk around walking becomes
circumambulation and eating and drinking
becomes a feast offering and sleeping
and dreaming becomes a practice of
luminosity so that is to meditate day
and night everything becomes practice
that is if you sustain mindfulness
awareness love and compassion and
everything becomes practice so it's more
important for the mind to become
secluded and not just a body and of
course if you have an opportunity to
seclude your body in retreat then you
can also do that for some time if you
have the karma from a previous life then
you might have an opportunity and that
the wish to do so might arise then you
can take that opportunity and maybe
practice in retreat for a week or so and
the merit of just that even is
inconceivable certain quality thoughts
of damage achieved in function Ravi with
children
pensee Dada after Karuna educators upon
me but isn't this terrific for charge
orderly
monk generous honored traditions about
the same with Socrates no ha 40
I invited the maids were Singapore's
impartial warty the numbing bungee Timmy
Jerry Thomas might require a cubed
eligible child but these our boss our
lovely voyage
Oh God is a new martini harmony
children shouting fire charming Pyrrha
Pyrrha gt4 appeared about Caracara so
make you angry
rah he's deported suburban guys who
talked about parties of Islam Islam
child game Georgie versatile in a
universe in Jena geometry is not people
that they are dr. Bell organism color
sensitive over here Ronnie
sometimes although season
solid your charm your myosins are on
your channel say something so recharge
the dynastar please Biogen round some of
your memory the knowledge body
supportive of other sources and so it
same without distractions so this term
without being without distraction that
is actually a turn that we have we can
there's something very profound a
profound point to be understood
now when it comes to the distraction of
our physical level and often we don't
have
choice over that but then when it comes
to the mind that's more important for
the mind not to be distracted so what it
means is that whatever you do normally
when the mind is unmindful then whatever
you do you just follow whatever thought
arises so for the most part we don't
actually recognize all these thoughts
that constantly arise in our mind and we
just follow them along for example when
we are eating and having a conversation
we are completely unmindful and we do
that and it is these subtle thoughts
that place is imprinted into our mind if
you have mindfulness on the other hand
even if you are among a hundred people
or so mindfulness it's very clear if the
mind is very clear then you will take
notice of anything that is happening
around you so it will be your sensation
of what is happening it's very clear and
that is a state of non distraction non
distraction is to not follow not pursue
whatever thoughts arise within the mind
and you just continue to sustain a state
of mindfulness that is non distraction
and when the mind is always non non
distracted when the mind is not
distracted it makes no difference
whether you are with a hundred people or
by yourself it all becomes the same so
whatever happens happens
knowing limbs with clear awareness you
take notice of whatever happens around
you and when the mind is clear in that
way then naturally whatever you do
becomes a virtuous practice so what is
virtue actually what is virtuous
practice it is it begins with
recognizing self-grasping and the
afflictive emotions and with insert
recognition wisdom expands compassion
arises
and it comes from a state of mindfulness
so then you are mindful in all of your
activities and if you're mindful in all
of your activities then just naturally
you will abandon harming others and you
will engage in activities that that
benefit them and altruistic activities
so this is what naturally will then
happen and so it is now for as long as
we know no seeds to a litter of self and
other this is how we sustain mindfulness
and sustaining mindfulness in this way
becomes a natural accumulation of Merit
so it means then that with mindfulness
whatever you do with body and speech
will become a conduct that doesn't cause
any harm towards anyone any sentient
being whatever you do will naturally
become beneficial you will take notice
of your surroundings and the people
around you and their needs for example
and there is an elderly a person you
will assist them and so on so naturally
your conduct will become really pure in
this way so this is virtuous conduct
that you engage that that when we engage
in body and speech and it comes from a
mind of mindfulness so as I'm in the ray
paused and had said everything he do
becomes virtuous and he said if the mind
is in that's such a state the ten
virtues actions naturally arise and the
ten non-virtuous actual actions
naturally dissolve into themselves so if
you're always mindful basically whatever
you do will naturally become virtues so
that is the main point to be understood
here in terms of without distraction to
always sustain a state of mindfulness
hmm
Sundaram there
will not succumb Portuguese disposed is
almost on the Harkonnen ronnie haxon
watching boy your lunch with any common
Lord Ramachandra hotter conditions are
symbolic see watch amore geometry
subsequently the tomahawk operation this
is a soggy color image
what do miss our velocity nourish
College Mahabharata by shiro theory is
the other the Archie was altogether the
others inside Saudi your moral donor
needs a charity for Trina
more damage to our German start a cravat
you something watch our glory the
imagination is that our nature around
with alternately tabatha particles above
removes Metallica part was you know work
impossible so so much have been young
solid choice immunity perseverance
fortunately person erosion
so I really don't I mean it's partly
because of some memories then there's
first number for family and longtime
companions will part from each other
possessions gained with effort will be
left behind consciousness the guests
will leave the guest house of the body
let go of all worldly concerns this is
the way of a bodhisattva and so in this
verse what's most important to reflect
upon is consciousness a guest will leave
the guest house of the body so the body
is like a guest house and normally we
cherish this podium very much it's our
biggest attachment and when you
understand that the body is just like a
guest house then this attachment then
naturally and somewhat diminish so
normally it is because of this
attachment that to this body into our
dear ones that it is like our kind of um
like subtle channels and everything
becomes dried out so we are very
attached to our families and friends our
spouses particular our children because
we love them very much and of course in
general love is a good quality but still
it is impermanent and if we do not
reflect upon impermanence and we don't
remember remind ourselves of the fact
that everything is impermanent then one
day when all of that suddenly changes
people often are so overwhelmed by their
suffering that they commit suicide
so then a very intense suffering will
fall upon one so it's important to to
begin with to understand that all of
that
in permanent also this is in the old
days when the Buddha was alive and the
Buddha also know there was this place
I'm made where there was no suffering
and then he encountered this place that
there is actually suffering in the world
and in this way he understood
impermanence so everything is
impermanent that everything that exists
is impermanent and also our loving
relations so if you think about it again
and again then even though there is love
actually there will be less attachment
and so it refers to anything our
possessions our wealth but in particular
people that we are attached to that we
love very much in fact if you really
remember impermanence your love for them
will actually get stronger because you
will then think that this all one day
this will all not be anymore this is all
impermanent so what's the point in
constantly arguing and fighting I will
not fight I will respect them so in this
way if you remember impermanence
actually your love for your companions
will become stronger and more stable and
if you don't know that then anyways one
day you will have no choice but to part
from them because everything is
impermanent our relations and our wealth
and possessions and so forth
so here at this verse we have to reflect
upon impermanence and it is that you
know through impermanence repulsion with
samsara arises a sense of renunciation
and it is that that this is like the
legs of meditation so often even though
we know that things are impermanent we
usually don't think about it nobody
really thinks about it and almost like
that myself
so there is this prayer that s
application where we pray please grant
your blessing
that's an impermanent arise within my
heart so it's very important here it
reminds us here this worse that we must
remember they that the impermanence of
this life properties that I see Paula
something something not just recently
integrated children some children the
Constitution supposes inherently
Fujimoto Maryam geometry or the
consciousness important subsistence
impossible Suzuki machine charging
whatever hatachi Valerie Jarrett 1814 on
Suvarna or thought that reason of the
data college
Yosemite Sam changes Santini same
associated Papa labas diseases college
tamales non sunt is the border between
Santos original songs or province
establishment or adjustment of the rules
the arteries or metabolic disease Palmer
body from the panel today but really
important images of reservation did our
villages only lungs and original data
there are so much volatility religious
authority already huh domain oh Jesus
young son responsible choice Timothy
budget important some ketchup on your
packaging something you know how our
center roller society the know something
is someone on the doors the Iraqi
laboratories she's ranking someone of
the knowledge in our locker see several
prostitute adult or child theaters
dominantly something that opportunities
say thirty modellist what children seems
in some tell EE determine subjects will
read or nor German SS these are some
queries and it says family and longtime
companions will part from each atom so
no there there is great love that we
have for our non near ones dear ones our
family and friends and so on and that in
itself actually is a good quality nine
within the mind this does this feeling
of love is a by nature a good quality
and in general it is said that among all
the afflictive emotions the worst is
hatred or anger and in particular
according to the tantric path it is that
actually that attachment is not
considered to be a great fault in fact
it is kind of a mix between qualities
and faults and the reason is because
attachment arises actually from love so
it is related to love and therefore it
is not regarded as the greatest fault
but then when that love
arises we love a person
and begin to cling to the true existence
of the person and kind of the way we
label them the way we see them we see
them as very beautiful we think about
their face for example and then we
develop an attachment to that now that
is actually extremely harmful if you
develops an attachment that is based on
an outer appearance and the body of a
person that will lead to a lot of harm
so why do you really love that companion
what is that love it should be something
from within the mind and if it comes
from within the mind then these kind of
companions can spend their entire lives
together so this is the kind of love
that you want to hold on to the outer
body is nothing you can hold on to it is
impermanent it is a compound that
phenomenon it is just like a pile of
dust actually it's like a pile the
aggregates the five aggregates are like
that they are empty so when you hold on
to the loft within the mind however then
that kind of love will eventually
transform into bodhichitta and so then
in this life you will remain companions
and in future lives you will go to the
HN together to the Pure Land so here
think this body is impermanent it is a
compound what is the harm in not
abandoning the attachment if we don't
pay attention to that we will continue
to cling to the true existence of how
things appear to us and then that will
stay in the mind when we die and then
when we die with such an attachment in
the mind then there are stories of
people taking birth as all kinds of
creatures in the bacteria's on in
people's bodies and they experience a
lot of suffering there and
after that they are plunged into the
three lower realms so there are many
great faults many great difficulties
that come from attachment so even though
it arises from love we have to separate
the attachment from the love and then
hold on to the love and then you will be
able to spend your lives together and
even if you do that the body will not
remain it's like a guesthouse so what
goes on it's not the body that you're
attached to but it's the mind the mind
that you love and actually what we call
the pure land of their chin is just a
place where all those with love in their
minds go together to me this is the
place where all those with love meet and
what we call hell that is the place
where all those with hatred go together
so it's all really comes from the mind
therefore hold on to that feeling of
love and not so much the outer
appearance of things and train the mind
in viewing these outer appearances as
impermanence and just like a dream and
if you can do that with a person for
example then you can do it with anything
else for example with your possessions
and enjoyments and so forth whatever it
is you train the mind in remembering the
impermanence and the dreamlike nature of
everything
see the dream isn't my disposal not yet
also part of the smart originally your
son is dominant
muhammad yahya samadhi the artist of
poverty door storm authority that
alleged racially diverse total
manipulation zones
yeah servants knowledge apart from metal
body regions - if I were a citizen of
the density the Latino name the regime
or so participation was a special
members are suggesting beside and Donna
Whirley are mentally ill reaches our
certainly deserve Tony
brother are you can attend or not just a
family divorce a martini but I already
started in understand which also number
one person GJ last one sundar Pichai
chocolate current flag was the divers
Majesty German machinery darn airy
cotton gin just like George Hotz
soul so time to touch them proud no
nobody's honestly
so harsh are incented earrings and
irritants in high nor portly Salvatore
the Protestants over varmitech
interpreted our child worried the
judgment error is this important
Jung's report very little change change
Romani touchy semantic memory changes
energy whatever but I've got a chocolate
of the song most average the partnership
children manana talked about children
Jimenez dungeon also it is said that if
you wish to know what you did in the
past and look at your present body this
life is just like them oil in a bottle
and and whatever you have obtained in
this life is the result of the merit
that you have accumulated in a previous
life for example having obtained a
precious human body is the result of
even having taken the Nina vows just one
time Washington's own gun also had said
keeping a single vowel
leads to the result of attaining near
Birnam so after six paramitas for
example if you just take the vow a vow
of a single practising a single virtue
the results of that is to obtain a
precious human body
so whatever you have obtained in this
life is what you have obtained due to
previous karma so we can't change that
around to much more extended and so on
but then for the future lives we have to
think about in terms of karma the right
causes to create so if you want to have
a precious human body again in a future
life you have to practice ethical
discipline or if you want to experience
long life and harmonious companions you
must practice patience if you want to be
rich you have to practice generosity and
now especially in this life there are
many objects that we consider very
valuable very precious especially when
they're expensive then we have a strong
attachment to our possessions and now
for example this is also why we make
these offerings to the deities of all
these jewel ornaments because we
consider these things as very precious
as very special and so actually
regarding that it is that in the king of
aspiration prayer for excellent conduct
don't be attached to those things our
attachment to those things is very
profound and if that remains within your
mind then beyond your death this
attachment will be there and their
stories of worm beings have taken birth
in an evil way in a negative way
together with those objects of their
attachment for example there was this
story but a retreat and who did
accumulate a lot of money and when he
died he took birth as a black spider who
was then who ran after like the money
the notes and so on and staying with the
money and actually people could actually
see that spider
that you can seem so when the
consciousness leaves the body it is just
like the body is like this vase filled
with water which is the consciousness
and wherever it breaks this is where the
water will be spilled so this transition
between this life and the next one is a
very critical moment a very crucial
moment that you have to be very mindful
of and therefore most most important at
that critical moment is to not die with
an attachment to any kind of precious
valuable objects that you might possess
but before
for example offer them up to the three
jewels and so now regarding them wearing
these ornaments and and so on these
precious objects it depends on your
perception tomb if you are a battery on
a practitioner and visualize yourself as
the datum then actually it is said that
it is appropriate to worm jeweled
ornaments there isn't there's nothing
that goes against that so if there is no
self no thing sense of meme but if you
really have an awareness of I am Tara or
I am Chen Rizk then there is nothing
wrong with wearing ornaments on the
other hand from the perspective of the
individual liberation that is not
allowed it is prohibited to wear many
ornaments and that's because here we are
not meditating on add a team here there
is a concept of me and a self and from
that perspective it is actually said
that ornaments need to be avoided for
example also in the lower classes of
Tantra this is the case here we are not
allowed to were perfumes and ornaments
and necklaces and so forth but then
again in the Vajrayana when there is
really no self then again it is okay to
do that so it depends on one state of
mind well no in any case when we dime
there is a great danger that
we bring this as us this attachment to
our precious objects that we are leaving
behind and so therefore for this reason
it is said that before we die we should
let let go of these and make an offering
of all ones that have attachments to
one's families and friends and
enjoyments and possessions and it is
important to let go of all of that and
at the time of death to only single
pointed limb bring to mind the Buddha
Aminta bond so this is the way we should
be able to go because this life is just
like the dream of a single night
now we experience the daytime the waking
State perceptions and at night when we
fall asleep we go into a dream state and
then you wake up again so this
transition from day to night every day
actually each and every day we are in a
way transitioning from one life to the
other and then another life into the
other it's like the same process we had
day by day we are transitioning from one
life to the other and it's very similar
when we then fallen to the Bardo after
his life so again and again recognized
that this life is really just like a
dream there's no point in making such an
effort to run after all these things
because all of this is not actually real
there is no point in holding on to all
of these possessions I rather hold on to
the cause of virtue of my practice
generosity
ethical discipline patience and so forth
these become the causes of birth in the
higher realms but whatever you have now
in this life nothing can be kept nothing
can be held onto so in this way this is
what is really meant with giving up this
life or letting go of all worldly
concerns
conga awesome figure eight is important
scientists sometimes distillery is
immortal the emotion socially the energy
is on mute elderly you know body
later Oliver 2008 directly quality
surround the signal to somebody in
Javaris on the visor the bottom a little
column 3 some cases of the vapor
tertiary structure or network or energy
Corning possible result for between
reporting sample working in somebody
needed a vajazzle problem a symbolical
engine or a theater somebody engine
supporting supporting media community
subtour it yeah - something in terms of
the sorts of these problems or the
subject of a job through started
thoroughly subtle coverage only but this
reversal is non simple choice a little
something about the earth literally here
on the new velocity Tsubasa
forgive me
ma Pina si la mejora Massa Dante's
various or certain Chavo sena cardinal
de algunos de ellos dijeron que tal
Hajus Robinson yeah another Italian ah
ha ha serves delicious anomalous Zeeman
desirable consignee Trudeau G Machado
hollows pawan hans selye delicious Chara
de trabajo de estado de to be a
horizontal more Trudeau dinero de tomate
editorial or a todo de la cosa more
tiene todo de norris-la guardia de
escena last meeting or Sicily is
certainly the subject of the IATA
from ipanema serenity from single
towards the interpreter kitchen area
from the burattino sawatya course
important subject of Achaia the agility
love the charitable early to talk about
some particular or a bit our change the
amorous
so in the next person speaks about
abandoning evil companions and it says
in bad company the three poisons grow
stronger the activities of learning
reflecting and meditating decline and
love and compassion are lost give up
such companions this is the way of a
bodhisattva so now when it comes to
abandoning negative company so in
general it refers to a companion may be
normally let me just think about this
life in ordinary sense then often it is
through our companions that we develop
very powerful afflictive emotions and so
what is in a general sense means is that
don't rely on them but rely on a
spiritual teacher but then this negative
companion often we can't we'll choose
our companions because we can get them
due to our karma and of course everyone
wants a positive good companion but it's
not always what we get because that's
it's also a common often we have no
choice but to be with them and we can't
abandon them all so how we should think
about it is that whatever that companion
is there is a way to practice with them
so as to cultivate loving compassion and
patience so if there is someone who
constantly and hurts you then first you
get like some resentment but then you
cultivate some love and compassion and
then the resentment goes away even in
the other person so this is the kind of
masters the skillful means that need to
be applied here when it comes to
avoiding negative friends it's difficult
to actually physically avoid them
because it's our karma to be with them
but it this really refers to the
skillful
of transforming an evil friend a
negative friend into a positive friend
so know them there's there is two kinds
of companions that we have there is some
that we love very much and then there is
the evil whom handy and there's those
who always humble very rude and has just
heard us when they can and these
actually are companions that mean that
are unnecessary for us to cultivate
patience and if you sustain love and
compassion regardless of what they do
then this negative companion actually
will eventually become a positive
virtuous companion so you must hold on
to patience in those moments in a
temporary sense now in a more Ultimatum
sense now for example a positive
companion is someone who helps you
cultivate bodhichitta in an ultimate
sense you love them
and so when you feel that through a
certain companion love increases then
you can consider them to be virtually as
a positive companion so you have a good
relation of love in this life and also
in you must have had that in previous
lives so now you have his loving
relation so you recognize them through
this companion I have found love and now
I must hold on to love even those in the
slightest in a slightest way in any kind
of circumstance cultivate love increase
that life and then if it is a negative
companion then this companion becomes a
support for you to cultivate patience so
it is a feeling that arises within you
circumstances is feeling of love and
then you hold on to it and then that
feeling of page
when afflictive emotions are being
triggered and actually if you don't have
anyone who triggers them we can't really
eliminate them tuned for example also
myself for instance if i had no one who
triggers my anger and the anger will
just stay there so then the anger stays
in the jealousy stays and the greed
stinginess stay and so on and then
something happens for example you have a
very precious object and someone breaks
it awesome you feel stingy about it you
don't want to let go of it so then I
think that this is very well because now
I'm recognizing my own attachment and
also I'm purifying this comic that is
coming credit erm that I have and or it
happens when jealousy arises for example
so then she does a good thing because
this person has helped you to recognize
the jealousy and so this is how your
practice with each of the afflictive
emotions so when they are positive
companion normally we develop an
attachment and then that attachment
often leads to jealousy so in that case
in terms of positive companions
recognize the fault of jealousy and the
quality of love that is to be sustained
and so in this way that jealousy becomes
transformed otherwise if you if you let
it go and you are attached to the person
then you get jealous then that friend
may also turn into an enemy so it's
important to recognize based on positive
companions when this feeling of jealousy
arises and then in terms of negative
companions mainly we need to recognize
those feelings of anger and stingy Ness
and so forth so that's feeling that
arises within the mind on the one hand
when it's a positive companions it is
the love and patience that you should
recognize and sustain and if it's a
negative companion then it's patience
and so forth especially patience that
needs to be sustained so it's basically
love for positive friends and patience
for negative friends and if you trust
sustain those two you will be able to
take any circumstance onto the path so
if you're able to practice in this way
with any kind of companion positive or
negative marital result Oh cousin so the
relation hungry
tsunami nikasha so that is all about
this annihilation
hello top artists are watching teacher
Harmon contest about a tourist origin
pyramidion
marty-mar vataj miles above directivity
she down at Walmart you know salon
Martha's dildo Sharon Martin Itachi
misogynistic or about for some poor girl
Shanna Trudeau is simply missed with all
those planets a tourism someone
sportiness the achieve or technology lab
the column large adjustable order I'm so
it is very recognized each and every
afflictive emotion arises so if for
example if it's some of the companion
that causes a lot of harm talk to you
then first of all an afflictive emotion
arises in your mind and but then if you
hold on to this affliction that is what
really causes the harm so see this
person as an opportunity to recognize
the afflictive emotions and if it's a
friend that you love very much for
example if you love somebody very much
you love them but then if they go around
talking to other people then immediately
you get to tell us and then you don't
like that so instantly recognized here
oh I'm being jealous but it is through
the other person that I'm able to see
that so now I need to let go of my
jealousy let him do whatever he wants I
must let go of my jealousy so in this
way you recognize you know
jealousy or for example if there's two
companions and a couple and one all of
us accumulates a lot of money and the
other one goes around spending all that
money all the time all over the place
then the person who tries to make the
money will feel resentful and feel like
he's wasting all that money and then we
never have enough money so that person
will naturally feel a bit the greedy
with their money doesn't want to let go
but then actually no matter how much you
try to collect if you don't have the
merit it will not accumulate and if you
do have the merit it will just naturally
accumulate so this is again an
opportunity to recognize creed or
stinkiness so or you might feel in
another situation I'm always trying to
be so nice to that person and no matter
what no matter how nice I am
they never recognize that and I always
treat me badly in return so first you
might feel really frustrated with that
but then actually again you can what you
can recognize here is the sense of me
this I I'm always being nice to them and
he is never nice to me so here's the
sense of I that arises and it almost
arises from every emotion actually you
can recognize it when you get angry good
angry because of meme or you get jealous
because of the I'm or you get greedy or
stingy because of the I if all it really
comes from the sense of mean and these
people also help us to see that because
normally we don't actually see that but
in those circumstances it arises and
then we have a sign of this I still team
there and so this is how we can take all
of these circumstances as the past and
practice with them in transforming
negative companions into positive
companions by recognizing our own
emotions of
of anger and greed and jealousy and so
forth
and all those positive friends that we
love very much they help us to sustain
our love and increase our love so in
this way everyone really becomes a
support to our practice and basically if
you sustain this awareness of a must
sustain love by all means then you will
be able to take any circumstance in your
daily activities as the path
[Music]
Oh
mmm
already
[Music]
Oh Oh
all right
Oh
[Music]
on the MMF
cotton silk up our conversations on
Tengen Toppa jawline so turnip or
zombo's an embolic a part a certainty
Delp in canto so for Alana Ezra's
important GG oh yeah Chavez Zombo le
numéro chakra da cheap Normandy say for
Zombo neva neva Sheila Bennett Rosa
Maria de la medicina de Mesilla
chopper knocking about dr. Hodgins - you
know Mom or a digit or not getting
herself energy combatant astrologer
attracted on some horrible you know
you're on the cutting edge
then breast number success when one
follows a true spiritual friend false
will dissolve and good qualities will
grow like the waxing moon considered his
friend more dear than your own body this
is the way of the body start firm now so
as before now that's the difference
between positive or a negative
companions but what makes someone a
positive or a negative companion is
something that you can just really see
for yourself by looking at your own mind
and seeing how those people effects your
mind
and so if through a certain person your
love and your compassion increases then
you can consider them as a positive
companion but then if afflictive
emotions increase then it is a negative
companion so we cannot really judge that
from externally seeing but you have to
see within yourself how this person
affects iam and often even if there's a
general positive relation like disciple
follows Lama for example which is in
general positive but then if the
disciple and doesn't know how to follow
that teacher properly then they might
develop many afflictive emotions of
attachment and and hatred and jealousy
and so on and then all of that becomes
actually a fault and so you have to
apply a method to transform negative
companions into positive companions so
that basically in the end everyone is a
positive companion so this previous
verse is very important
the tungsten ambassador complicity jury
the jury or some other German citizen
Germany but the Miss Universe body part
all the passengers in the genitive
some charity shop jewelry professional
relationship and still insufficient me
from the capital of the seven selected
layers of Oaxaca a terrible terrible
torture his personification Rama people
a year David there are too many
suggestions all Munir captain Tasha when
there is somebody teach our son Jax
about harmony dispensationalist
total water chemistry religious remote
certain no loss of our homes it's
important bacha bazi Marie's unfortunate
some tips activities in Oaxaca Laurie
more directly shiratama
[Music]
subdivision
such a volatile interesting subject
sensitive territory adjusting from the
public Philip retinas theology or child
chakra mean absolutely
doncha patience or the ocarina suitors
entrepreneur my relation is detachable
some dealers you had a partial knowledge
so the faults will dissolve some no what
is this fault here that dissolves now we
all possess put in nature and put a
nature is the cause of awakening and
even though that is our own nature we
are also obscured by ignorance two kinds
of ignorance mainly it is the ignorance
that does not recognize that one's own
mind is actually the Buddha and so not
recognizing that we develop a perception
of me and from that afflictive emotions
arise and this is what obscures the mind
because obscuration so it is the Karma's
that we accumulate with an afflicted
mind that leads to all of these faults
here and often it even happens that we
want to engage in a positive virtuous
activity and until the result turns out
negative because the root of all fault
is the afflictive emotion in the mind
and knowing that we follow a spiritual a
true spiritual teacher wisdom increases
our knowledge increases so there's two
kinds of wisdom there is the worldly
wisdom and then the transcendental
wisdom the transcendental wisdom is the
wisdom according to the holy Dharma and
this wisdom is the knowledge that
understands past and future lives and
karma cause-and-effect the worldly
wisdom is given to us by our worldly
teachers who teach us various things
about this world and Sciences and so on
all of them good qualities in this world
so all of these teachers are very
precious and now therefore with whatever
you do in body speech and mind this much
it must become a skillful way of
accomplishing the benefit
yourself and happiness of others and so
this is accomplished in this life
because we have followed our worldly
teachers who taught us everything about
this life and on the ultimate level from
Adamo perspective we have a tool to
create happiness temporarily and also
ultimately so basically all the teachers
in the world are very precious and if
you if you bring this to mind then your
mind becomes vast becomes open so
remember the kindness of each and every
shown for example during the empowerment
we have said this precious treasure that
you are setting forth today was in one
of the repetitions so this precious
treasure normally we consider a precious
treasure as precious gem from a jewel
and so on Gold something that's very
expensive but that's not what's actually
precious what is precious are these
words the words are really precious
because through the words we can
understand the meaning and wisdom arises
actually the root of wisdom really is
the words the letters that convey that
impart knowledge and then wisdom
increases so therefore all of the
teachers are very precious whether they
are worldly or Dharma teachers through
broadly teachers we have a way to
achieve happiness in this life and
through our Dharma teachers we have a
way to achieve happiness in all future
lifetimes from lifetime to lifetime so
in brief what we gain is wisdom and
therefore all the teachers have been
very kind and so here it says then No
consider them as more dear than your own
body so what's really more precious is
it a teacher or your own body normally
we think it's our body
of course but actually the body is just
like an an old pair of clothing that you
will take off one Dame so now when you
have it it's there but you can't really
hold on to it often we we try different
things like medical treatments and
rituals and so on but in the end what
happens to the body is up to one's own
karma and often for example even
protected King is assassinated and no
one can protect them when Carmen is
there karma so ultimately it's all up to
karma and so in any case the qualities
that we learn from our spiritual teacher
are qualities that we bring with us from
lifetime to lifetime and they will lead
to temporary and ultimate happiness so
this is what the teacher gave us and
that is why all of the teachers so it's
very important to always keep that in
mind
our category rocket ship a star means
unconscious also quantity not children
simultaneously just in front of
terrorism - this Center for Casa Laguna
khadijah misogynistic AOPA trigger kappa
or jerk at the digital society mark the
me don't magically emoji muslims or my
personal thumbs on see what united
states were these ever really
implemented in material morality our
character some water or a symphony sent
leanness orkut illimitable your so
that's actually something that you
really have to think about 90's world
there is countries that experience
freedom independence now think about you
know them the well-being that many
people experience in those countries and
how countries have some stability and
people their experience and well-being
and many hundreds and thousands of
millions of people can live together
harmoniously many different races and
religions all can live together in
freedom and with discipline so all of
that is due to one's country and the
teachers and so forth who taught people
the ways of the world so without that if
you wouldn't have that you can look at
some other countries the difficulties
that they experience so in our place in
our country for example we have science
developing people living together and
peacefully and harmoniously and all of
that and that is because there is this
country that you know protect some there
are their people so if you think in this
way then your mind becomes open just
like a blossoming flower and you
remember the kindness of the teachers
and the scientists and so on and
those people who will care for their
country and so when you think in this
way you also will be able to really
develop some concern for your country
and recognize that often the reason why
I experienced trouble is because I
haven't felt that concern before for
example some people they blame for
example the police that or that it and
I'm in trouble now because of the
terrible police but that's also actually
a wrong way of seeing it because they
are also necessary so that two people
can coexist in harmony and peacefully in
a country so just sort of oddly ways the
worldly tradition mentioned that
yesterday people can experience some
happiness and so therefore all of these
teachers in the country are really
extremely kind so when you develop this
sense of gratitude
your mind will open up just like a
flower so that's very important doctrine
to tamiya that sort in any congenital
[Music]
naleda Genaro passion jealousy
strategical a generality map our village
mr. Sampat arizona or france technical
morality so knowledge will give the
proper sovereign charge the
deterministic visible the princes of the
universe
terminal value of a docking of the
tassels don't use each other
Florentine nacinda job there is a
military operation
she totally become a volunteer
opportunities Raja yoga ottoman
touchable Nostrum Shirota
yeah the movement karere yeah yeah it's
important to watch the rugs support the
charges or division is such a notion of
art or tolerate another reason T given
keyword search ad infinitum orange am
NOT signing dong Jae's college
internship imagine geometry contingent
from the cosmic Turin dollar limit until
July apologies honor since largely
tolerance Mao Asada
party property in the potential
educational approach alveoli cracking
Geneva talked about better resolution
model was a cosmetician of those in
Europe the rate is hajeck
another legend in Omaha during the
change the world injury there are
[Music]
depreciated our average cost important
religious authorities cilantro
nivaaranji teru teru teru Rancho Mirage
Mirage lady she referred me to the
orator eternity
Dominus important leadership a topic
certainly leadership a customer
opportunity children - hola Dora
these are super agent as much diversity
on the table the Unity Tour de
libération de nice delicious some
vocabulary then I was nominee total
source of protons in tilde or ahead
then even if him now have these outer
conditions of discipline and laws and so
forth that alone will also not be
sufficient to really create well-being
among than the people in this world and
that is because the mind is still most
important we still need to be able to
eliminate our afflictive emotions so if
you're not able to do that if the
afflictive emotions and self clinging
remain in the mind even if we have outer
rules we still will not experience any
any happiness or well-being so and that
is the fault of not understanding the
nature of karma cause-and-effect so that
is why when the Buddha taught him he
first taught those teachings on karma
cause-and-effect so a person who really
understands that understands karma then
as milarepa had said it is like for them
it is like whatever they do everything
becomes naturally ten virtuous actions
and the ten negative actions will
dissolve into themselves so that person
will naturally be a good person they
will treat others with love and with
kindness and with respect and they will
keep all the laws and rules they will
have an ability to equalize self with
others so this is how our mind is
protected through the holy Dharma but
when these two systems the mundane and
the Dharma become a union then really
this world is like a nirmanakaya Pure
Land so if you understand that in this
way then this is really how it becomes
for you and now it's not just your own
personal teacher that you should
remember with quite achieve it but all
the teachers and all the religions you
should see them as good you do your own
practice according to your own tradition
at the same time you see all the others
as goods and you treat them with respect
so with that State of Mind you will feel
motivated to learn new things you will
see everything is good and positive the
two traditions as good and positive so
when you think about this again and
again know for example when you think
about the world the worldly ways imagine
for example how would it be without that
or how would it be without having a
country and those laws how would it be
without any of the religions so thinking
this way and really analyze faults and
qualities over and over again and in
this way you develop your own wisdom so
now when we come back to this question
what's more important our own body or a
spiritual teacher then we can see after
such reflection that the teacher is
really most important more precious than
our own body because our own body is a
compound and impermanence and it will
perish in the end but then the qualities
that we have learned from our teachers
we will bring with us from lifetime to
lifetime even stay with us continuously
Sakya Pandita had said even if you were
to die tomorrow learn something today
because whatever you learn in this life
even if you don't for now to be a great
scholar in this life you still bring
that propensity with you into your
future lives just like a jewel that you
bring with you or you store it so you
can retrieve it later like you store a
precious object and later you can you
can get it back so it's just like that
there's many signs of that for example
in one family two siblings have the same
parents one of them wants to study and
it's a very good student and the other
one doesn't really want to study and
even if they tried I don't will you
learn much
because they are very ignorant so the
first one is wants to study because in
the previous life already he studied and
if you study then wherever you go in
your future lives you have you bring
with you this foundation of learning
already so this is how the Buddha had
explained karma and now such a person
then will be able to make themselves
like do well in their lives so they will
for example be able to accept any kind
of difficulty and know how to create the
causes of happiness person who doesn't
understand karma they will be completely
blind that are ignorant in this life
they will not be able to overcome any of
their difficulties they don't know how
create how to create happiness so those
two systems are both important they are
both like the Sun and the moon and we
need to respect them equally so what is
precious that with in those teachers is
the words that we receive from them
these words of knowledge these are the
qualities that will remain within our
mind and that will develop a mind of
wisdom and compassion and then wherever
you are born in the six realms of
samsara that quality will remain just
naturally you will experience happiness
to that to whatever the extent you have
cultivated wisdom and compassion and
likewise if even just the slightest
afflictive emotion is within your mind
it will lead to many faults and
difficulties karma is unfailing so that
is what needs to be understood here so
now when you think about the various
forms of sentient beings and their
various experiences of happiness and
suffering it really comes again back to
UM karma and that is what we learn from
our Dharma teachers worldly teachers
teachers about Sciences and so on and so
these twos
systems need to be a union so in brief
all the teachers are very planning the
knowledge that we gain from them is what
is so precious because that is something
that you will bring with you from
lifetime to lifetime if you really think
about it and so if you understand that
you will see how the teacher is really
more precious than one's own body so
actually the most supreme companion the
best companion to have is the teacher of
both traditions de Broglie and the
Dharma and when you understand that you
will be motivated to learn things so
this is how I read
gdg gdg would support important
Dartmouth although the child among
thousand solitary child knowledge that
is origin story body creating Congress
Allah is Angela Chandan cinema I don't
own your opinion the reality when a
church house its authority tratamos
return the gesture for my SEO local
ecology is just somewhat education or a
beginner agree to purchase terminal
charitable in sahaja yoga tomorrow my up
a child early somebody minutes
assaulting young jeezy Union tea made by
chapter below my gelatinous their
condition somebody just initially
somebody's widget support around
he darted supercharger you're wrong
attention I'm getting chocolate
the neighbor Tom thought the old me
doctor contaminant removal order when
admitted Chevron gene or a pompom iris
course on the geometric Tricia no my
young support until counted Robertson
with the Dodge important chi-ching
chi-ching authoritative sincere
principal total knowledge
Jason where did he don't talk to me
Sharan it's our own little talk down or
number nipper total Endora bruises all
traffic Totten alleged in jungle or a
team Marshall the North dazzling
airplane for t-mobile mytouch Maria zone
and the next verse number seven says who
can worldly gods themselves imprisoned
in samsara protect their for a seek
refuge in the three jewels the
undeceiving source of refuge this is the
way of a bodhisattva
so this being imprisoned in samsara
so what is the root of samsara
it is the self and even though all
sentient beings possess put in nature it
is that temporarily due to the self that
they have become solidified and beings
like ice blocks that are floating on the
water
so the root of samsara is that self and
for as long as we consider ourselves as
most important no matter what we do
whether it is Adama
mundane activity we will always have a
mix of faults and qualities for example
it is it is like if there is no hot
water then there is nothing to melt an
ice block
so whatever of the two systems are pro
traditions you follow the bases that
must be created is one of love and
compassion for example a teacher in
general all the teachers should be seen
as the same but then for example you
have a science teacher who teaches their
students with love and compassion and
that teacher will have a lot of students
and he will be able to really impart his
knowledge on to the students and they
turn out well if the teacher doesn't
have any love and compassion even though
he has all of that knowledge and good
qualities he cannot impart that
knowledge upon the disciples students so
basically if there is love if love and
compassion are strong then trust
naturally the sense of self will be
weaker the stronger yourself your
altruistic mind the weaker naturally
yourself grasping mind so in fact there
is it's a natural thing there is no need
to think too much about the meaning of
selflessness and whether it exists or
not if you just cultivate an altruistic
mind and just naturally this sense of a
self will disappear for example one
might say that oh he's not a Buddhist so
he doesn't have love and compassion he
doesn't know the Dharma but that's
completely wrong because he still can
have compassion if he has habituated to
that in a previous life so at this
prison of samsara is the sense of a self
and if that is very strong then whatever
you do in the world or the Dharma will
not protect you will be of not so much
benefit so some sorrow is like this vast
ocean and the beings within it are like
ice blocks floating around and they bump
into each other and there's conflict
and they go around in circles so we go
around in circles accumulating carmem
and then come ripens in the six realms
of samsara even the slightest of camera
most settles of karma I'm ripens
everything comes from karma and people
don't who don't know that consider
themselves as most important and
therefore no matter what the doom they
can benefit these pathogens in reaction
in the tavern
da de da de ângelis original domain
where dr. gomez distills is a tourism
department dodgy on each of these by
charge or italic or digital justice from
generation then next I'm here then it
says awesome the worldly gods who can
they protect so this term worldly here
so literally in Tibetan it has a sense
of like something that installs fear the
first it means
subject to disintegration also subject
to fear and so fear because when we
consider ourselves is most important
then we
subject to fear and suffering naturally
when you consider yourself as more most
important that will obviously to a lot
of fear and that leads to suffering and
that is mainly due to being controlled
by the eight worldly concerns we run
after fame and gain and happiness and so
forth because we consider ourselves as
most important and we base our
activities on that but then actually all
of that is impermanent and in this way
acting in this way we cannot protect
ourselves nor can we protect others so
for as long as we follow these eight
worldly concerns considering ourselves
is most important we will always be
subject to fear and that leads to a lot
of suffering and we cannot be protected
and so those worldly costs God and their
cause but they of worldly and worldly
means that for as long as there is
self-grasping strong self-grasping one
is a worldly people in a Turkish ecology
considered whatever degree
so the Dutch methods would determine the
world around it consciously
[Music]
party geometry also the literature do
not interrupt our teachers ontology
Rory's son Jesus interpreter cell
coverage in the front of the bus until
our control bus it's called roti paratha
the two bodies who Georgie father
Sajid shouldn't give you some red so for
example there's a lot of people in this
world whom I constantly protest and
there's a lot of conflict and they often
do it with this intention of I want to
protect my like my country and it they
want to protect their own side the
country and so on and but then often if
that does not agree with others they
don't really consider anybody else then
then that leads to more suffering and
then again everything is impermanent and
there is fear so that's like a worldly
example and now even though in a
temporary sense it might lead to some
experience of well-being and power and
so forth
it still is impermanent and there's a
different result that will ripen in a
future life later on because then the
cost that the cost that they have
created then will create more more
suffering in all of their future lives
and that is why there is no end to
suffering and so therefore the Buddha
had said what we need to separate from
is the cause of suffering and Buddha
actually in itself the term is in
Tibetan Sun game and sung means to have
cleared away cleared away the dualistic
grasping itself and other EA is vast or
expansive and then the mind becomes vast
like space and you see the true nature
of the mind and that is called the
ultimate truth and so here it says so
seek refuge in the three jewels
so who are the three jewels the three
jewels are not the Sangha storage dama
dama de la primavera Majesty dodging
each other new Motorola digital
educational world of the remote on the
remote Assassin's Creed emulation
variable she knows there is dot or
magistrate of the north
that's abolishing the rural America
versus the Huckle stone mm allegedly by
jaha Collinson to w1 citizen city or not
honorable discharge summary reversal
demoness Holika Holika sagittal decision
comparison already true Paralympic image
but remember the optimal horizontal rara
rara National Theatre karma tomorrow
this hottie Tottie sorry Marshall
sorriest so mental clarity
Sajid Don T's in the stopper detergent
in muscle car Casa Bonita genus Salix
antagonism gelatinous Boutros insulting
Terrence Terrence the authority of
cultural nature controls hombres theta
tactical it eliminates sorry your mother
deceptive device from Harbor since
holidays cannot confirm the supporters
of studying the causes of marriage
really buddy they develop the telephone
poles
double Tom's a shuttle team de medicina
de barajas
run around it also touchable rulers 30g
possibility Nagaraju the octopus
entities in various parts of the Sun
years the Saudis don't other ecology
ecology so determinate
Charlie Chaplin see the total total
quarantine sometimes eaten solid harem
what wasn't very greedy but there wasn't
a glorious deed our Harper see me
literally it was from a tip no the tree
she care thing is you going
give her the Pomodoro
what's among your chocolate I'm some the
Buddha Dhamma and the Sangha so who is
the puddin so the Buddha is like the
Buddha Shakyamuni the Conqueror and he
is one with great wisdom he has perfect
that wisdom and now how has he perfected
that he has transformed the six
afflictive emotions into the six
paramitas and ultimately has perfected
the perfection of wisdom and now he is
renowned as one with great wisdom in
this world so then who is the actual
budem actually when you realize the
nature of your own mind your own Buddha
nation then you realize the Buddha
within you when we realize that then we
become liberated from our suffering it
is to see the ultimate truth is to see
the Buddha but for as long as we have
not realized that we need to rely on the
relative truth because we have not yet
understood the workings of karma so in
the beginning we did not recognize that
there is no self so that led to the
perception of self and other and that
then led to the arising of the
afflictive emotions and there are many
afflictive emotions many subtle
afflictions there are 84 thousand
different afflictions and then each can
be combined with each other so there
each of them has 84,000 so there are so
many and these have created the ice
block like state after six realms of
samsara and this is what we must become
freed from in order to free ourselves
from that state we must first understand
the relative teachings on
a cause and effect well and the essence
of that is to understand that we should
not consider ourselves as most important
but should cultivate an altruistic mind
and on the basis of that you will
naturally and truly understand the
nature of your mind you will naturally
understand the non-dual nature of self
and Adam so first if you truly
understand karma cause-and-effect and
you developed four immeasurables then
naturally you will realize the ultimate
truth wisdom arises naturally from that
and that's also explained later in the
thirty-seven practices so this is what
the Buddha had realized this is the
perfection of wisdom and then what is
the Dharma the Dharma consists of the
twofold truth there is the the relative
truth of unfailing karma
cause-and-effect and the ultimate truth
of emptiness and so the Buddha had
appeared in this world and he thought
the Dharma and it is through the
spiritual teacher that explains that to
us so it says now before in a previous
verse the spiritual teacher is the one
of imparts that on us so starting from
the Buddha himself up until the present
day up until His Holiness the Dalai Lama
there has been a succession of Sangha in
this world who explain the Dharma to us
so now even though the Buddha Shakyamuni
is not here we have the Dharma and the
Sangha which is like the fruit of the
Buddha Shakyamuni so these are the three
jewels and whoever realizes the true
meaning of those jewels understands will
be protected and that protection is
unfailing and so how is it unfailing and
unfailing protection it is that through
this reduce we understand the workings
of karma now we know actually now I
understand
the cause of happiness it is love I have
to cultivate love afflictive emotions
are the cause of sufferings or have to
give them up I have to practice patience
and if you practice that then in all
future lifetimes even if you say I don't
want to you will be born in the higher
realms anyways and ultimately even if
you say I don't want to attain
enlightenment you will attain
enlightenment anyways so that is the
unfailing refuge of the three jewels and
so now even though the Buddha is not
there there is a Sangha who imparts that
Buddhist knowledge upon us the two fold
truth which is that that our mom so
therefore we should really recognize the
Sangha as the Buddha the sanghas mind is
the Buddha even though his outer form
appears as his Sangha the body is just
material like a substance of material
matter so we might think that oh this is
just an ordinary person he doesn't have
all the qualities of a Buddha but that's
really not true because it is through
that Hitchings of that the Sangha that
we understand the twofold truth that we
understand that there is no self and so
on so he becomes like I'm hot water
melting our ice block so if we
understand the relative truth
well then naturally we understand the
ultimate rules then you yourself
realized the ultimate rules you yourself
become like a blossoming flower knew
yourself attain enlightenment become a
Buddha
so how has that happened it is through
the Sangha who imparted that knowledge
on him so therefore he really is
actually the Buddha in his mind so even
though he appears as the Sangha what he
teaches us with his speech is the Talmud
a Buddhist words and that is why we
should regard all of the teachers as
really inconceivable of great kindness
and as an embodiment after sweet rules
so the
body is the Sangam speeches the dharmam
and a mind is boredom and if you see it
in this way then you will make no
differences between them there is no
bias between different Sangha members if
you understand that you will be able to
respect them and feel devotion for all
of them and a pure perception arises
from that so this is really how we can
how we can understand even logically
that there's we truly are our tradition
in journalism no reason on earth
Adi Adi Adi was strongly believe us to
the earth portal other programs in the
motel reservation the Protectorate so
Dutt sorry cousin William easy the town
the automotive a present or it when
Lauren Froderman them short for them to
another job
the river divided disagreement there are
11 there are is called the origin but is
Saki complete the major it's some
positive outlet don't supply me but
there is there is some disaster some
deterrent don't worry
governor lepage hours each month or
admission is time cylinder it is each
item under it so the three jewels they
are not literally in Tibetan it means
team the rare and supreme ones so they
are rare because it is very rare first
of all for the the the Buddhist the
Buddha to appear for the Buddhist
teachings to exist in this world and
then to remain within this world is even
more rare and that it's more rare to
have practitioners who follow those
teachings and then it's even more rare
to find someone who practices them in an
authentic way and their entire life and
so on so it becomes increasingly rare it
is very the Dharma is very rare and that
is it's very difficult to encounter it
and actually even if it is very
difficult to just spend one's entire
life with practice actually it is a
question of lifetime to lifetime so for
many lifetimes we actually must engage
in in practice so it is very rare and
then it is supreme their supreme because
everyone who has a mind wishes to be
happy and now we experienced some
samsaric mundane happiness in the six
realms but actually all of that is the
cause of suffering and the Buddha
thought there is three kinds of
suffering and mainly in the three lower
realms there being six
bereans the suffering upon suffering and
in a three higher rams we experienced
the suffering of change but no one
experiences lasting blessed lasting
happiness that is always devoid of
suffering and that is the bliss the
happiness of a budem this bliss is
unchanging and without rising and
decline it is the great bliss of the
Dharmakaya and from this Araya cities
and baba Caius and stay near Monica's
just like the sunrays emerging from the
Sun effortlessly and naturally these are
the qualities of the three caius so what
we call supreme bliss is this unchanging
bliss for example chakras and varam in
Tibetan is demchoke and so day means
bliss and shock means supreme so trucker
samara really means supreme bliss
unchanging bliss is the supreme bliss it
is a bliss that is beyond coming and
going or birth and death it is obvious
last thing and that is unlike the
samsaric list which is impermanent and
never lasts it is said that everything
that is contaminated where some sorry is
the cause of suffering everything that
is uncontaminated is the cause of
happiness and so therefore we say that
this rituals are also supreme and this
rituals when they are summarized they
are all subsumed within the Sangha and
in this world an example of that is His
Holiness the Dalai Lama so all the
spiritual teachers are subsumed within
His Holiness
the equalizer she emerges a giver they
dry up water from that attractive
economy
what did you say started to talk mother
your money from our mr. Giuliani refer
dr. Wallace he talked electronic support
engine camera they love money which is
number to become an angry unity he
shared some deepening shut up your
marriage
o-tama
starting to talk problem at all in the
world although they take courage and now
we have an excellent excellent
opportunity because in the past I was
not really able to explain the
parameters of meditation and wisdom so
well because I also have not gained that
kind of learning in commentary but now
we have an excellent opportunity for you
to ask questions here from Campo Tenzin
here who can explain that you me have a
short time there's only a short time
that we have and I encourage you to ask
him your questions
there's many disciples who really want
to learn and want to know things so you
should ask him because for me it is
difficult to read not the questions when
they written down and so on but now we
have this opportunity to be able to ask
questions you can ask them to camp or
there's trepanned immersion here
turquoise here
so there's teachers here all of them
here that you can ask questions and so
in the past we didn't have that
opportunity and I felt that I wasn't
always able to explain the nature of the
parameters of meditation and wisdom so
well maybe I was just able to explain
that in a more like a central way but
now we have to suffer to redeem and I
ask you to know make good use of the
time and ask your questions to those
Lamas
all of our baby home or my live ma home